README.md, before:

# Monet 3.0

A full-stack marketplace platform connecting **Candidates** (job seekers) with **Professionals** (industry experts) for paid consultation calls. Built with Next.js, TypeScript, Prisma, and Stripe.

## Table of Contents

- [Local Development Setup](#local-development-setup)
- [Supabase Setup (Local + Production)](#supabase-setup-local--production)
- [Production Deployment](#production-deployment)
- [NPM Scripts Reference](#npm-scripts-reference)
- [Learn More](#learn-more)

---

## Local Development Setup

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** 20+ ([download](https://nodejs.org/))
- **npm** (comes with Node.js)
- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** (for local Postgres + Redis)
- Alternatively, you can use standalone Postgres 14+ and Redis 6+ installations

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Configure Environment Variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` with your configuration values. At minimum, you need:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` | PostgreSQL connection string | `postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/monet` |
| `REDIS_URL` | Redis connection string (for BullMQ) | `redis://localhost:6379` |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | NextAuth secret key | Generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` |
| `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY` | Stripe secret key | `sk_test_...` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY` | Stripe publishable key | `pk_test_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_SECRET_KEY` | Stripe key used by Vitest live Stripe calls | `sk_test_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | Stripe webhook secret used by Vitest | `whsec_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_DEFAULT_PAYMENT_METHOD` | Test payment method for live Stripe tests | `pm_card_visa` |

See `.env.example` for the full list of available environment variables including Google OAuth, Zoom integration, Gmail OAuth2 SMTP, Supabase Storage, and feature flags.

`npm run test` uses live Stripe test-mode API calls for Stripe-related tests. Ensure the Stripe test variables above are present in your `.env`.

### Step 3: Start Docker Services (Postgres + Redis)

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This starts:
- **PostgreSQL 15** on port `5432` (user: `user`, password: `password`, database: `monet`)
- **Redis 7** on port `6379`

> **Note**: Skip this step if you're using external Postgres/Redis instances. Just update the connection strings in `.env`.

### Step 4: Run Database Migrations

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

This applies all migrations and generates the Prisma client.

### Step 5: Seed the Database (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm run seed
```

`npm run seed` defaults to **lite** mode to reduce free-tier DB/storage usage.

```bash
npm run seed:lite   # explicit lite mode
npm run seed:full   # full dataset (all mocked candidates/professionals)
```

You can also set `SEED_POPULATION_MODE=lite|full` directly.

**Seeded Users:**

| Role | Emails | Password |
|------|--------|----------|
| Admin | admin@monet.local | admin123! |
| Candidates (lite default) | cand3@monet.local | cand123! |
| Professionals (lite default) | pro2@monet.local | pro123! |
| Candidates (full mode) | cand1@monet.local through cand7@monet.local | cand123! |
| Professionals (full mode) | pro1@monet.local through pro7@monet.local | pro123! |

**Additional Test Data:**
- **Availability**: 14 days of availability slots for all seeded candidates
- **Bookings**: 6 bookings per professional in various states (requested, accepted, pending feedback)
- **Edge Cases**: 11 additional bookings covering declined, expired, cancelled, disputed, refunded, and reschedule scenarios

### Step 6: Start the Development Server

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: You must run **two processes** simultaneously for full functionality.

**Terminal 1 — Next.js Dev Server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**Terminal 2 — BullMQ Queue Worker:**
```bash
npm run dev:queue
```

The queue worker handles background jobs including:
- QC validation jobs
- Email notifications
- Nudge reminders
- Payout processing
- Booking expiry

### Step 7: Access the Application

| URL | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| http://localhost:3000 | Landing page |
| http://localhost:3000/candidate/dashboard | Candidate Dashboard |
| http://localhost:3000/professional/dashboard | Professional Dashboard |
| http://localhost:3000/admin/bookings | Admin Portal |

---

## Supabase Setup (Local + Production)

Use this section if you want Supabase for:
- PostgreSQL (`STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`)
- Resume storage (`STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`, `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET`)

### Local Supabase (No Cloud Usage Costs)

1. Start local Supabase services:
   ```bash
   npx supabase init
   npx supabase start
   npx supabase status -o env
   ```
2. Map CLI output into `.env`:
   - `API_URL` -> `STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` -> `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - `DB_URL` -> `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` (if you want Prisma to use local Supabase Postgres)
3. Set/update `.env`:
   ```env
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:54321"
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY="..."
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET="candidate-resumes"
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL="postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:54322/postgres"
   ```
4. Create the storage bucket in local Supabase Studio:
   - Open `STUDIO_URL` from `npx supabase status -o env`
   - Go to **Storage** -> **New bucket**
   - Name: `candidate-resumes`
   - Access: **Private**
5. Apply schema and seed test data:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev
   npm run seed
   ```

### Production Supabase (Cloud)

1. In Supabase project dashboard:
   - Copy Postgres connection string -> use for `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`
   - Copy Project URL -> use for `STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`
   - Copy `service_role` API key -> use for `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - Create private storage bucket `candidate-resumes` (or set matching `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET`)
2. In Vercel (or your host), set:
   ```env
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL="postgresql://...supabase..."
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL="https://<project-ref>.supabase.co"
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY="..."
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET="candidate-resumes"
   ```
3. Run production migrations against production DB:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate deploy
   ```
4. Ensure your separate queue worker uses the same production `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`, `STORAGE_SUPABASE_*`, and `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET` values.

### Environment Separation (Important)

- Local runtime reads local `.env` / `.env.local`.
- Production runtime reads host env vars (for example, Vercel Project Settings).
- Do not reuse production credentials in local `.env` unless intentional.

---

## Production Deployment

### Recommended Architecture

| Component | Service | Notes |
|-----------|---------|-------|
| **Application** | Vercel | Next.js optimized hosting |
| **Database** | Supabase | Managed PostgreSQL |
| **Redis** | Upstash or Railway | For BullMQ job queue |
| **File Storage** | Supabase Storage | Private resume uploads |
| **Email** | Gmail OAuth2 (Nodemailer) | Transactional emails |
| **Payments** | Stripe Connect | Separate charges and transfers |

### Step 1: Set Up External Services

1. **Supabase Database**
   - Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Copy the connection string from Settings → Database → Connection String
   - Use the "URI" format for `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`

2. **Upstash Redis**
   - Create a Redis database at [upstash.com](https://upstash.com)
   - Copy the Redis URL for `REDIS_URL`

3. **Stripe**
   - Set up a Stripe account with Connect enabled
   - Use live keys (`sk_live_...`, `pk_live_...`) for production

4. **Google Cloud + Gmail OAuth2**
   - Create an OAuth client in Google Cloud Console
   - Generate a refresh token for your sender account
   - Ensure the sender is allowed for your chosen Gmail/Workspace setup

5. **Supabase Storage**
   - Create a private bucket for resumes (default: `candidate-resumes`)
   - Generate a service role key for server-side uploads/signing

### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel

1. **Connect Repository**
   ```bash
   # Push to GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket
   git push origin main
   ```

2. **Import to Vercel**
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) → New Project
   - Import your repository
   - Framework will be auto-detected as Next.js

3. **Configure Environment Variables**

   Add all required environment variables in Vercel's project settings:

   ```plaintext
   # Required
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL=postgresql://...@supabase.co:5432/postgres
   REDIS_URL=rediss://...@upstash.io:6379
   AUTH_SECRET=<generate-secure-secret>
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<same-as-AUTH_SECRET>
   STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_...
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_...
   
   # Integrations
   AUTH_GOOGLE_ID=...
   AUTH_GOOGLE_SECRET=...
   # Optional legacy aliases
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=...
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   ZOOM_ACCOUNT_ID=...
   ZOOM_CLIENT_ID=...
   ZOOM_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   
   # Gmail OAuth2 SMTP
   GMAIL_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_REFRESH_TOKEN=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_USER=your-sender@gmail.com
   EMAIL_FROM="Monet Platform <your-sender@gmail.com>"
   
   # Supabase Storage (Resume PDFs)
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL=https://<project-ref>.supabase.co
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=...
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET=candidate-resumes
   
   # Optional Configuration
   PLATFORM_FEE=0.20
   CALL_DURATION_MINUTES=30
   DEFAULT_TIMEZONE=America/New_York
   FEATURE_QC_LLM=true
   ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=...
   ```

   Email prerequisites:
   - `EMAIL_FROM` should align with the authenticated Gmail sender identity.
   - Verify Gmail/Workspace daily sending quotas before production rollout.

4. **Deploy**
   - Vercel will automatically build and deploy
   - Subsequent pushes to `main` trigger auto-deployments

### Step 3: Run Production Migrations

After first deployment, run migrations against your production database:

```bash
# Set production STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL locally, then:
npx prisma migrate deploy
```

Or use Vercel's build command to run migrations automatically by updating `package.json`:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "prisma migrate deploy && next build"
  }
}
```

### Step 4: Set Up Background Queue Worker

**Option A: Vercel Cron Jobs (Simple)**
- Use Vercel Cron to trigger queue processing endpoints
- Limited to scheduled intervals

**Option B: Separate Worker Process (Recommended)**
- Deploy `npm run dev:queue` as a separate service
- Use Railway, Render, or a dedicated VPS
- Ensure the worker has access to the same `REDIS_URL` and `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`

### Email Cutover Checklist (SES -> Gmail OAuth2)

1. Configure all `GMAIL_OAUTH_*` variables and `EMAIL_FROM` in production.
2. Deploy and run a controlled end-to-end booking acceptance.
3. Verify:
   - Booking moves `accepted_pending_integrations` -> `accepted`
   - `confirm-booking` failures are retried with backoff
   - Acceptance emails include valid Zoom links and ICS attachments
4. Monitor for 24 hours:
   - Count of stale `accepted_pending_integrations` bookings
   - BullMQ failed `confirm-booking` jobs
   - Email transport failures

### Email Rollback Checklist

1. Revert to the pre-cutover SES commit.
2. Redeploy app + worker.
3. Restore SES environment variables.
4. Re-run controlled acceptance flow and verify email delivery.

### Production Build Commands

```bash
# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm run start
```

---

## NPM Scripts Reference

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Next.js development server (port 3000) |
| `npm run dev:queue` | Start BullMQ background worker |
| `npm run build` | Create production build |
| `npm run start` | Start production server |
| `npm run seed` | Seed database with test data |
| `npm run test` | Run tests (Vitest; includes live Stripe test-mode calls) |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |

---

## Learn More

- [CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md) - Comprehensive project documentation and conventions
- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - Next.js features and API
- [Prisma Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs) - Database ORM
- [Stripe Connect](https://stripe.com/docs/connect) - Payment processing
- [BullMQ](https://docs.bullmq.io/) - Background job queue

Commit message:

feat: Integrate real Stripe test-mode PaymentIntent lifecycle into database seeding.

README.md, after:

# Monet 3.0

A full-stack marketplace platform connecting **Candidates** (job seekers) with **Professionals** (industry experts) for paid consultation calls. Built with Next.js, TypeScript, Prisma, and Stripe.

## Table of Contents

- [Local Development Setup](#local-development-setup)
- [Supabase Setup (Local + Production)](#supabase-setup-local--production)
- [Production Deployment](#production-deployment)
- [NPM Scripts Reference](#npm-scripts-reference)
- [Learn More](#learn-more)

---

## Local Development Setup

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** 20+ ([download](https://nodejs.org/))
- **npm** (comes with Node.js)
- **Docker** and **Docker Compose** (for local Postgres + Redis)
- Alternatively, you can use standalone Postgres 14+ and Redis 6+ installations

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### Step 2: Configure Environment Variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` with your configuration values. At minimum, you need:

| Variable | Description | Example |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` | PostgreSQL connection string | `postgresql://user:password@localhost:5432/monet` |
| `REDIS_URL` | Redis connection string (for BullMQ) | `redis://localhost:6379` |
| `AUTH_SECRET` | NextAuth secret key | Generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` |
| `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY` | Stripe secret key | `sk_test_...` |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY` | Stripe publishable key | `pk_test_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_SECRET_KEY` | Stripe key used by Vitest live Stripe calls and `npm run seed` payment lifecycle seeding | `sk_test_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | Stripe webhook secret used by Vitest | `whsec_...` |
| `STRIPE_TEST_DEFAULT_PAYMENT_METHOD` | Test payment method for live Stripe tests | `pm_card_visa` |

See `.env.example` for the full list of available environment variables including Google OAuth, Zoom integration, Gmail OAuth2 SMTP, Supabase Storage, and feature flags.

`npm run test` uses live Stripe test-mode API calls for Stripe-related tests. `npm run seed` now also uses live Stripe test-mode API calls to create and transition real PaymentIntents for seeded payment rows. Ensure the Stripe test variables above are present in your `.env`.

### Step 3: Start Docker Services (Postgres + Redis)

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This starts:
- **PostgreSQL 15** on port `5432` (user: `user`, password: `password`, database: `monet`)
- **Redis 7** on port `6379`

> **Note**: Skip this step if you're using external Postgres/Redis instances. Just update the connection strings in `.env`.

### Step 4: Run Database Migrations

```bash
npx prisma migrate dev
```

This applies all migrations and generates the Prisma client.

### Step 5: Seed the Database (Optional but Recommended)

```bash
npm run seed
```

`npm run seed` defaults to **lite** mode to reduce free-tier DB/storage usage.

```bash
npm run seed:lite   # explicit lite mode
npm run seed:full   # full dataset (all mocked candidates/professionals)
```

You can also set `SEED_POPULATION_MODE=lite|full` directly.

`npm run seed` requires `STRIPE_TEST_SECRET_KEY` and rejects non-test keys (`sk_live_...`). It does not fall back to `STRIPE_SECRET_KEY`.

Seed runs now create real Stripe test PaymentIntents and perform capture/cancel/refund transitions to match seeded payment stages. Full mode will take longer due to Stripe API calls.

**Seeded Users:**

| Role | Emails | Password |
|------|--------|----------|
| Admin | admin@monet.local | admin123! |
| Candidates (lite default) | cand3@monet.local | cand123! |
| Professionals (lite default) | pro2@monet.local | pro123! |
| Candidates (full mode) | cand1@monet.local through cand7@monet.local | cand123! |
| Professionals (full mode) | pro1@monet.local through pro7@monet.local | pro123! |

**Additional Test Data:**
- **Availability**: 14 days of availability slots for all seeded candidates
- **Bookings**: 6 bookings per professional in various states (requested, accepted, pending feedback)
- **Edge Cases**: 11 additional bookings covering declined, expired, cancelled, disputed, refunded, and reschedule scenarios

### Step 6: Start the Development Server

⚠️ **IMPORTANT**: You must run **two processes** simultaneously for full functionality.

**Terminal 1 — Next.js Dev Server:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

**Terminal 2 — BullMQ Queue Worker:**
```bash
npm run dev:queue
```

The queue worker handles background jobs including:
- QC validation jobs
- Email notifications
- Nudge reminders
- Payout processing
- Booking expiry

### Step 7: Access the Application

| URL | Description |
|-----|-------------|
| http://localhost:3000 | Landing page |
| http://localhost:3000/candidate/dashboard | Candidate Dashboard |
| http://localhost:3000/professional/dashboard | Professional Dashboard |
| http://localhost:3000/admin/bookings | Admin Portal |

---

## Supabase Setup (Local + Production)

Use this section if you want Supabase for:
- PostgreSQL (`STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`)
- Resume storage (`STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`, `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`, `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET`)

### Local Supabase (No Cloud Usage Costs)

1. Start local Supabase services:
   ```bash
   npx supabase init
   npx supabase start
   npx supabase status -o env
   ```
2. Map CLI output into `.env`:
   - `API_URL` -> `STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` -> `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - `DB_URL` -> `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL` (if you want Prisma to use local Supabase Postgres)
3. Set/update `.env`:
   ```env
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:54321"
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY="..."
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET="candidate-resumes"
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL="postgresql://postgres:postgres@127.0.0.1:54322/postgres"
   ```
4. Create the storage bucket in local Supabase Studio:
   - Open `STUDIO_URL` from `npx supabase status -o env`
   - Go to **Storage** -> **New bucket**
   - Name: `candidate-resumes`
   - Access: **Private**
5. Apply schema and seed test data:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate dev
   npm run seed
   ```

### Production Supabase (Cloud)

1. In Supabase project dashboard:
   - Copy Postgres connection string -> use for `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`
   - Copy Project URL -> use for `STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL`
   - Copy `service_role` API key -> use for `STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`
   - Create private storage bucket `candidate-resumes` (or set matching `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET`)
2. In Vercel (or your host), set:
   ```env
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL="postgresql://...supabase..."
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL="https://<project-ref>.supabase.co"
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY="..."
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET="candidate-resumes"
   ```
3. Run production migrations against production DB:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate deploy
   ```
4. Ensure your separate queue worker uses the same production `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`, `STORAGE_SUPABASE_*`, and `SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET` values.

### Environment Separation (Important)

- Local runtime reads local `.env` / `.env.local`.
- Production runtime reads host env vars (for example, Vercel Project Settings).
- Do not reuse production credentials in local `.env` unless intentional.

---

## Production Deployment

### Recommended Architecture

| Component | Service | Notes |
|-----------|---------|-------|
| **Application** | Vercel | Next.js optimized hosting |
| **Database** | Supabase | Managed PostgreSQL |
| **Redis** | Upstash or Railway | For BullMQ job queue |
| **File Storage** | Supabase Storage | Private resume uploads |
| **Email** | Gmail OAuth2 (Nodemailer) | Transactional emails |
| **Payments** | Stripe Connect | Separate charges and transfers |

### Step 1: Set Up External Services

1. **Supabase Database**
   - Create a new project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
   - Copy the connection string from Settings → Database → Connection String
   - Use the "URI" format for `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`

2. **Upstash Redis**
   - Create a Redis database at [upstash.com](https://upstash.com)
   - Copy the Redis URL for `REDIS_URL`

3. **Stripe**
   - Set up a Stripe account with Connect enabled
   - Use live keys (`sk_live_...`, `pk_live_...`) for production

4. **Google Cloud + Gmail OAuth2**
   - Create an OAuth client in Google Cloud Console
   - Generate a refresh token for your sender account
   - Ensure the sender is allowed for your chosen Gmail/Workspace setup

5. **Supabase Storage**
   - Create a private bucket for resumes (default: `candidate-resumes`)
   - Generate a service role key for server-side uploads/signing

### Step 2: Deploy to Vercel

1. **Connect Repository**
   ```bash
   # Push to GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket
   git push origin main
   ```

2. **Import to Vercel**
   - Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) → New Project
   - Import your repository
   - Framework will be auto-detected as Next.js

3. **Configure Environment Variables**

   Add all required environment variables in Vercel's project settings:

   ```plaintext
   # Required
   STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL=postgresql://...@supabase.co:5432/postgres
   REDIS_URL=rediss://...@upstash.io:6379
   AUTH_SECRET=<generate-secure-secret>
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<same-as-AUTH_SECRET>
   STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_...
   NEXT_PUBLIC_STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_...
   
   # Integrations
   AUTH_GOOGLE_ID=...
   AUTH_GOOGLE_SECRET=...
   # Optional legacy aliases
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=...
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   ZOOM_ACCOUNT_ID=...
   ZOOM_CLIENT_ID=...
   ZOOM_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   
   # Gmail OAuth2 SMTP
   GMAIL_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_REFRESH_TOKEN=...
   GMAIL_OAUTH_USER=your-sender@gmail.com
   EMAIL_FROM="Monet Platform <your-sender@gmail.com>"
   
   # Supabase Storage (Resume PDFs)
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_URL=https://<project-ref>.supabase.co
   STORAGE_SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=...
   SUPABASE_RESUME_BUCKET=candidate-resumes
   
   # Optional Configuration
   PLATFORM_FEE=0.20
   CALL_DURATION_MINUTES=30
   DEFAULT_TIMEZONE=America/New_York
   FEATURE_QC_LLM=true
   ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=...
   ```

   Email prerequisites:
   - `EMAIL_FROM` should align with the authenticated Gmail sender identity.
   - Verify Gmail/Workspace daily sending quotas before production rollout.

4. **Deploy**
   - Vercel will automatically build and deploy
   - Subsequent pushes to `main` trigger auto-deployments

### Step 3: Run Production Migrations

After first deployment, run migrations against your production database:

```bash
# Set production STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL locally, then:
npx prisma migrate deploy
```

Or use Vercel's build command to run migrations automatically by updating `package.json`:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "prisma migrate deploy && next build"
  }
}
```

### Step 4: Set Up Background Queue Worker

**Option A: Vercel Cron Jobs (Simple)**
- Use Vercel Cron to trigger queue processing endpoints
- Limited to scheduled intervals

**Option B: Separate Worker Process (Recommended)**
- Deploy `npm run dev:queue` as a separate service
- Use Railway, Render, or a dedicated VPS
- Ensure the worker has access to the same `REDIS_URL` and `STORAGE_POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`

### Email Cutover Checklist (SES -> Gmail OAuth2)

1. Configure all `GMAIL_OAUTH_*` variables and `EMAIL_FROM` in production.
2. Deploy and run a controlled end-to-end booking acceptance.
3. Verify:
   - Booking moves `accepted_pending_integrations` -> `accepted`
   - `confirm-booking` failures are retried with backoff
   - Acceptance emails include valid Zoom links and ICS attachments
4. Monitor for 24 hours:
   - Count of stale `accepted_pending_integrations` bookings
   - BullMQ failed `confirm-booking` jobs
   - Email transport failures

### Email Rollback Checklist

1. Revert to the pre-cutover SES commit.
2. Redeploy app + worker.
3. Restore SES environment variables.
4. Re-run controlled acceptance flow and verify email delivery.

### Production Build Commands

```bash
# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm run start
```

---

## NPM Scripts Reference

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Next.js development server (port 3000) |
| `npm run dev:queue` | Start BullMQ background worker |
| `npm run build` | Create production build |
| `npm run start` | Start production server |
| `npm run seed` | Seed database with test data and real Stripe test-mode PaymentIntent lifecycle calls |
| `npm run test` | Run tests (Vitest; includes live Stripe test-mode calls) |
| `npm run lint` | Run ESLint |

---

## Learn More

- [CLAUDE.md](./CLAUDE.md) - Comprehensive project documentation and conventions
- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - Next.js features and API
- [Prisma Documentation](https://www.prisma.io/docs) - Database ORM
- [Stripe Connect](https://stripe.com/docs/connect) - Payment processing
- [BullMQ](https://docs.bullmq.io/) - Background job queue
